look at a bit more complex case. So we're going to start you know complexifying
a bit. So now we have a function here with output variable b that is a function
of three scalar inputs a, b, and c. So a, b, and c are some specific values,
three inputs into our expression graph, and a single output d. And so if we
just print d we get four. And now what I have to do is I'd like to again look
at at the derivatives of d with respect to a b and c and think through again
just the intuition of what this derivative is telling us so in order to
evaluate this derivative we're going to get a bit hacky here we're going to
again have a very small value of h and then we're going to fix the inputs at
some values that we're interested in so these are the this is the point a b c
at which we're we're going to be evaluating the derivative of D with respect to
all a, b, and c at that point. So there's the inputs, and now we have D1 is
that expression, and then we're going to, for example, look at the derivative
of D with respect to a. So we'll take a, and we'll bump it by h, and then we'll
get D2 to be the exact same function, and now we're going to print, you know,
func f1, d1 is d1, d2 is d2, and print slope. So the derivative or slope here
will be, of course, d2 minus d1 divided h. So d2 minus d1 is how much the
function increased when we bumped the specific input that we're interested in
by a tiny amount. And this is then normalized by h to get the slope. So, yeah.
So I just run this. We're going to print d1, which we know is 4. now d2 will be
bumped a will be bumped by h so let's just think through a little bit what d2
will be printed out here in particular d1 will be 4 will d2 be a number
slightly greater than 4 or slightly lower than 4 and that's going to tell us
the sign of the derivative so we're bumping a by h b is minus 3, c is 10. So
you can just intuitively think through the derivative and what it's doing. a
will be slightly more positive, but b is a negative number. So if a is slightly
more positive, because b is negative 3, we're actually going to be adding less
to d. So you'd actually expect that the value of the function will go down. so
let's just see this and so we went from 4 to 3.9996 and that tells you that the
slope will be negative and then will be a negative number because we went down
and then the exact number of slope will be, exact number of slope is negative 3
and you can also convince yourself that negative 3 is the right answer
mathematically and analytically because if you have a times b plus c and you
are, you know, you have calculus then differentiating a times b plus c with
respect to a gives you just b and indeed the value of b is negative 3 which is
the derivative that we have so you can tell that that's correct. So now if we
do this with b so if we bump b by a little bit in a positive direction we'd get
different slopes so what is the influence of b on the output d so if we bump b
by a tiny amount in a positive direction, then because A is positive, we'll be
adding more to D, right? So, and now what is the sensitivity? What is the slope
of that addition? And it might not surprise you that this should be 2. And why
is it 2? Because D of D by DB, differentiating with respect to B, would give us
A. And the value of A is 2. So that's also working well. And then if C gets
bumped a tiny amount in H by H. Then of course A times B is unaffected and now
C becomes slightly bit higher. What does that do to the function? It makes it
slightly bit higher because we're simply adding C and it makes it slightly bit
higher by the exact same amount that we added to C and so that tells you that
the slope is 1. That will be the rate at which D will increase as we scale c.
Okay, so we now have some intuitive sense of what this derivative is telling
you about the function.